# Mission Statement
Welcome to the Meyer Lab! The Meyer lab has three central goals:
-	To do quality science
-	To develop each lab member to become a successful scientist
-	To maintain a collegial and intellectually-stimulating environment

# What I expect from you
You will take ownership of your training experience
-	You will keep me updated on your research progress and challenges.
-	Seek out professional development opportunities – being a successful scientist involves more than being good at the bench. You must communicate well (presentations, papers, grants), develop personal skills (lab management, mentoring), maintain high ethical standards, and for a faculty career, teach. However, these opportunities must be balanced with the most important element of your career development – research progress. Therefore, you must check with me before committing to any major programs (e.g., those requiring more than 4 hours/month) or submitting an abstract.

## You will develop your personal research skills
-	Begin reading the scientific literature - read the papers I suggest, run a literature search and read papers suggested by this search. Literature searches can be done in PubMed (best for looking for a specific author/combination of keywords), Google Scholar (best for looking for the ‘top’ papers on a topic), or Google (really useful for finding specific factoids). Spend some time each week updating your literature and just browsing. Subscribe to relevant eTOCs.
-	Learn how to plan your experiments so that they help you progress on the overall goal of your project.  Make sure your experiments address the question of interest correctly – this includes learning how to do the appropriate controls, techniques, etc. ‘At the Bench’ Chapters 1-6 provide general advice on how to set up your lab space/desk space, keeping a notebook and planning experiments, while Chapters 7-10 provide useful technical background for many of our lab’s main assays. Additionally, Wikipedia or company websites are often great sources of information on how an assay works.You will also need to learn how to effectively plan and multi-task to prevent down times. Develop plans with short/medium/long-term goals.
-	Keep detailed lab notebooks – these are essential to turn your hard work into a finished paper. Your notes should allow your work to be reproduced (meaning they must be understandable by people other than yourself) and will help to assign credit for authorship.  They are required by funding agencies and for any potential patents.  At a minimum each experiment should clearly identify the date, purpose, what you did, the results, and your conclusions. Your bound notebook should establish links to electronic files (such as images) and to print-outs of raw data that are kept in 3-ring binders (such as flow cytometry plots or multi-well plate reader assays). You are required to leave the originals behind when you leave the lab for others to build upon your work. More details can be found in the slides about notebooks.
-	Develop your writing and presentation skills.  As you start to make progress, begin outlining a paper’s figures and drafting the text. Be prepared to go through rounds of revisions before submitting an abstract or paper.  Although the availability of travel funds will vary, I encourage you to submit your work for presentation at one conference per year. Attend relevant seminars – I suggest 1-2/month to learn both science and how to give a good talk.
  -	For talks, please use the lab slide template – this makes it easier for me to incorporate into my talks when I present on your work.
-	Consider applying for fellowships, traineeships, and travel grants.  Not only will an award help your career and the overall lab funding situation, the experience of writing the proposal will help you think about what you are doing more deeply.
-	Learn how to accept and utilize constructive criticism. The feedback from me, colleagues, committee members, and course instructors is intended to improve your work.

## You will contribute to the lab and be a good lab citizen
-	Senior personnel are responsible for helping to train new lab members in the ways of the world (i.e. lab procedures, how individual/group meetings work, literature searching, etc.). Science is a community - many people will help you along the way and you should return the favor. Share your insider knowledge of techniques with others. As a post-doc, it is expected that you will take a leading role in this training – this is a wonderful time to refine your mentoring style for your future role in industry or academia.
-	Data belongs to the lab, not to any one individual – as a result, you will be expected to leave your original notebooks and files when you leave the lab.  In addition, there will be times when you will be asked to assist me in submitting grant applications to NIH/NSF/etc. This activity is essential to provide continuing support for the lab.
-	You will have designated lab jobs such as ordering, general maintenance, taking care of one of the instruments, etc. Failure to do your lab jobs not only affects you, it can impede the entire lab and will not be tolerated. Everyone is expected to help with dishes, making sure that supplies do not run out, reporting problems with equipment to the person in charge, aliquotting, and general lab cleanliness.
-	You will work safely in the lab.  Before beginning in the lab you must complete safety training.
-	You will keep lab protocols up-to-date on the main lab computer.
-	When working in the labs of other investigators, be polite, neat, and gracious.  Always follow their rules. If something breaks during your use, report it immediately to the appropriate person.
-	Be respectful, tolerant of, and work collegially with laboratory colleagues:  respect individual differences in values, personalities, and work styles.  

# What you can expect from me
-	I will set the scientific direction for the lab and provide the means to pursue those directions.  This will include helping you to find a research topic, writing grants to fund the research, and maintaining the necessary university protocols for us to utilize the laboratory. Additionally, I will seek out collaborators for our work to further your opportunities.
-	I am committed to mentoring you now and in the future.  I am committed to your training while in my lab, and to advising and guiding your career development. I will work to promote you and your work.
-	I will encourage you to attend scientific meetings and make an effort to fund these activities. These meetings are important to showcase your work and for the networking opportunities as you pursue positions after your time in my lab ends.
-	I will be available for regular meetings and will provide timely review of research.  In addition, I will do my best to provide an open door policy and respond quickly to e-mails.  Please be aware that there will be times when I will be unavailable due to other obligations – in particular my teaching is on the engineering campus. For abstracts and small data questions, I will generally be able to review in 1-2 days, for papers and thesis, I will need 1-2 weeks.
-	I will provide a work environment that is intellectually stimulating, supportive, safe, and free from harassment. I take seriously any difficulties you experience in relationship to this statement – if there are conflicts with another lab member, please inform me and I will work with you and the other lab member to find a resolution. I will strive to understand your unique situation and am open to your suggestions on how to improve your experience in the lab.


# Nuts and Bolts
## Hours and Vacation
I do not believe in tracking hours – instead, I am interested to see that you are productive. However, if I sense that this is being taken advantage of, the situation will be addressed. You will quickly recognize that biology is not a 9-5 proposition - night and weekend hours come with the territory. Many appointments do not include vacation/sick/holiday leave. However, to maintain your productivity, I believe it is important to take a some time off for these purposes.  Therefore, you will have two weeks of vacation.  I ask that you discuss with me at least 4 weeks before a planned absence - this way we can determine if it is an appropriate time for a vacation and if there are grant or other deadlines during that period we have ample time to prepare. I expect you to satisfactorily complete all assigned research duties prior to your planned departure.

## Meetings
Come prepared to discuss/present your recent research and next steps.  A written agenda including what you have done and what you propose to do in the next week must be e-mailed to me by 3 pm the day before the meeting. You must bring your lab notebook to each meeting. Group meetings will rotate between a variety of formats:  research updates, research presentations, and journal clubs. Attendance is mandatory – active participation is essential!

## Annual Evaluations
Each year we will have an evaluation – this will help us to determine things that are going well or are areas for improvement. I will tell you if I am satisfied with your progress and help identify steps you can take to fix any concerns. This is also an opportunity for you to communicate to me what I can do to help you succeed. Tell me if you feel that you need more guidance, more independence, to meet more often, etc.

## Authorship
One of the most important tasks in science is disseminating your research through publications and presentations; therefore, authorship on these items is an important indicator to the outside world of your role. Authorship implies a significant contribution to a paper such as intellectual ideas that change the research or experimental contributions (just following instructions and not actively participating in the experimental design/interpretation will be acknowledged, but likely would not result in an authorship). While the order of authors varies by specific field, in general for bioengineering the first author is the student/post-doc who took the lead and wrote the paper, the last author is the PI, and the authors in between are in order of decreasing contribution. Failure to complete papers before leaving the lab may result in a junior member doing so as the 1st author in your place.
